Multi object search (#363)
opendr-eu/opendr: docs/reference/multi_object_search.md

# multi_object_search module

The *multi_object_search* module contains the *ExplorationRLLearner* class, which inherits from the abstract class *LearnerRL*.

### Class ExplorationRLLearner
Bases: `engine.learners.LearnerRL`

> The *ExplorationRLLearner* class is an RL agent that can be used to train wheeled robots for combining short-horizon control with long horizon reasioning into a single policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *ExplorationRLLearner* class is an RL agent that can be used to train wheeled robots for combining short-horizon control with long horizon reasoning into a single policy.
```

Originally published in [[1]](#multi_object_search), Learning Long-Horizon Robot Exploration Strategies for Multi-Object Search in Continuous Action Spaces,(https://arxiv.org/abs/2205.11384).

The [ExplorationRLLearner](/src/opendr/control/multi_object_search/multi_object_search_learner.py) class has the following public methods:

#### `ExplorationRLLearner` constructor

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ExplorationRLLearner(self, env, lr, ent_coef, clip_range, gamma, n_steps, n_epochs, iters, batch_size, lr_schedule, backbone, checkpoint_after_iter, temp_path, device, seed, config_filename, nr_evaluations)

```

Constructor parameters:

- **env**: *gym.Env*\

>   Reinforcment learning environment to train or evaluate the agent on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Reinforcement learning environment to train or evaluate the agent on.
```

- **lr**: *float, default=1e-5*\
  Specifies the initial learning rate to be used during training.
- **ent_coef**: *float, default=0.005*\
  Specifies the entropy coefficient used as additional loss penalty during training.
- **clip_range**: *float, default=0.1*\
  Specifies the clipping parameter for PPO.
- **gamma**: *float, default=0.99*\
  Specifies the discount factor during training.
- **n_steps**: *int, default=2048*\
  Specifies the number of steps to run for each environment per update during training.
- **n_epochs**: *int, default=4*\
  Specifies the number of epochs when optimizing the surrogate loss during training.
- **iters**: *int, default=1_000_000*\
  Specifies the number of steps the training should run for.
- **batch_size**: *int, default=64*\
  Specifies the batch size during training.

> - **lr_schedule**: *{'', 'linear'}, default='linear'*\

Reviewer: according to the learner. Change either the docs or the learner.

  Specifies the learning rate scheduler to use. Empty to use a constant rate.
- **backbone**: *{'MultiInputPolicy'}, default='MultiInputPolicy'*\
  Specifies the architecture for the RL agent.
- **checkpoint_after_iter**: *int, default=20_000*\
  Specifies per how many training steps a checkpoint should be saved. If it is set to 0 no checkpoints will be saved.
- **temp_path**: *str, default=''*\
  Specifies a path where the algorithm stores log files and saves checkpoints.
- **device**: *{'cpu', 'cuda'}, default='cuda'*\
  Specifies the device to be used.
- **seed**: *int, default=None*\

>   Random seed for the agent. If None a random seed will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Random seed for the agent.
  If None a random seed will be used.
```

> - **nr_evaluations**: *int, default=50*\

Reviewer: ditto

  Number of episodes to evaluate over.

#### `ExplorationRLLearner.fit`
```python
ExplorationRLLearner.fit(self, env, logging_path, silent, verbose)
```

Train the agent on the environment.

Parameters:

- **env**: *gym.Env, default=None*\
  If specified use this env to train.
- **logging_path**: *str, default=''*\
  Path for logging and checkpointing.
- **silent**: *bool, default=False*\
  Disable verbosity.
- **verbose**: *bool, default=True*\
  Enable verbosity.

#### `ExplorationRLLearner.eval`
```python

> ExplorationRLLearner.eval(self, env, name_prefix='', nr_evaluations: int = None, deterministic_policy: bool = False)

Reviewer: default values should be specified in the description below

> ExplorationRLLearner.eval(self, env, name_prefix='', nr_evaluations: int = None, deterministic_policy: bool = False)

Reviewer: Also, parameter `name_scene` is not documented below

```
Evaluate the agent on the specified environment.

Parameters:

- **env**: *gym.Env, default=None*\
  Environment to evaluate on.
- **name_prefix**: *str, default=''*\
  Name prefix for all logged variables.
- **nr_evaluations**: *int, default=None*\
  Number of episodes to evaluate over.
- **deterministic_policy**: *bool, default=False*\
  Use deterministic or stochastic policy.

#### `ExplorationRLLearner.save`
```python
ExplorationRLLearner.save(self, path)
```
Saves the model in the path provided.

Parameters:

- **path**: *str*\
  Path to save the model, including the filename.

#### `ExplorationRLLearner.load`
```python
ExplorationRLLearner.load(self, path)
```
Loads a model from the path provided.

Parameters:

- **path**: *str*\
  Path of the model to be loaded.

#### Simulation Setup

> The repository uses the iGibson Simulator as well as Stable-baseline3 as external libaries. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The repository uses the iGibson Simulator as well as Stable-baseline3 as external libraries. 
```

This means that the training environment relies on running using the iGibson scenes. For that it is necessary to download the iGibson scenes. A script is provided in [multi_object_search](/src/opendr/control/multi_object_search/requirements_installations.py) 
To download he iGibson and the inflated traversability maps, please execute the following script and accept the agreement.

```sh
python requirements_installations.py
````

The iGibson dataset requires a valid license, which needs to be added manually. The corresponding link can be found here https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScPwhlUcHu_mwBqq5kQzT2VRIRwg_rJvF0IWYBk_LxEZiJIFg/viewform.
For more information please have a look on the official website: https://stanfordvl.github.io/iGibson/dataset.html

> ##### Visualisation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Visualization
```

> For visualizating the egocentric maps and their corresponding static map, add the flag `show_map=true` in`config.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To visualize the egocentric maps and their corresponding static map, add the flag `show_map=true` in`config.yaml`.
```

#### Examples

> * **Training and evaluation in the iGibson environment on a Multi Object Task.**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Training and evaluation in the iGibson environment on a Multi Object Task**
```

As described above, follow the download instructions.
  ```python
    import torch
    from opendr.control.multi_object_search import ExplorationRLLearner 
    from opendr.control.multi_object_search import MultiObjectEnv
    from pathlib import Path
    from igibson.utils.utils import parse_config

    main_path = Path(__file__).parent
    logpath = f"{main_path}/logs/demo_run"
    CONFIG_FILE = str(f"{main_path}/best_defaults.yaml")
    

    env = MultiObjectEnv(config_file=CONFIG_FILE, scene_id="Benevolence_1_int")

    device = "cuda" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu"

    config = parse_config(CONFIG_FILE)

    agent = ExplorationRLLearner(env, device=device, iters=config.get('train_iterations', 500),temp_path=logpath,config_filename=CONFIG_FILE)

    # start training
    agent.fit(env, val_env=eval_env)

    # evaluate on finding 6 objects on one test scene
    metrics = agent.eval(env,name_prefix='Multi_Object_Search', name_scene="Benevolence_1_int", nr_evaluations= 75,deterministic_policy = False)

    print(f"Success-rate for {scene} : {metrics['metrics']['success']} \nSPL for {scene} : {metrics['metrics']['spl']}")

    
  ```

> * **Evaluate a pretrained model**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Evaluate a pretrained model**
```

- **backbone**: *{'MultiInputPolicy'}, default='MultiInputPolicy'*\
  Specifies the architecture for the RL agent.
- **checkpoint_after_iter**: *int, default=20_000*\
  Specifies per how many training steps a checkpoint should be saved.
  If it is set to 0 no checkpoints will be saved.
- **temp_path**: *str, default=''*\
  Specifies a path where the algorithm stores log files and saves checkpoints.
- **device**: *{'cpu', 'cuda'}, default='cuda'*\
  Specifies the device to be used.
- **seed**: *int, default=None*\
  Random seed for the agent.
  If None a random seed will be used.
- **config_filename**: *str, default=''*\
  Specifies the configuration file with important settings for the Simulator and PPO.
- **nr_evaluations**: *int, default=75*\
  Number of episodes to evaluate over.

#### `MultiObjectSearchRLLeaner.fit`
```python
MultiObjectSearchRLLeaner.fit(self, env, logging_path, silent, verbose)
```

Trains the agent on the environment.

Parameters:

- **env**: *gym.Env, default=None*\
  If specified use this env to train.
- **logging_path**: *str, default=''*\
  Path for logging and checkpointing.

#### `MultiObjectSearchRLLeaner.eval`
```python

> MultiObjectSearchRLLeaner.eval(self, env, name_prefix, name_scene, nr_evaluations, deterministic_policy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MultiObjectSearchRLLeaner.eval(self, env, name_prefix, name_scene, nr_evaluations, deterministic_policy)
```

```
Evaluates the agent on the specified environment.

Parameters:

> - **env**: *gym.Env, default=None*\

Reviewer 2: `env` doesn't take a default value in code.

Reviewer 2: This still seems unresolved.

  Environment to evaluate on.
- **name_prefix**: *str, default=''*\
  Name prefix for all logged variables.
- **name_scene**: *str, default=''\
  Name of the iGibson scene.

> - **nr_evaluations**: *int, default=None*\

Reviewer 2: Default value is 75 in code.
```suggestion
- **nr_evaluations**: *int, default=75*\
```

  Number of episodes to evaluate over.
- **deterministic_policy**: *bool, default=False*\
  Use deterministic or stochastic policy.

#### `MultiObjectSearchRLLeaner.save`
```python
MultiObjectSearchRLLeaner.save(self, path)
```
Saves the model in the path provided.

Parameters:

- **path**: *str*\
  Path to save the model, including the filename.

#### `MultiObjectSearchRLLeaner.load`
```python
MultiObjectSearchRLLeaner.load(self, path)
```
Loads a model from the path provided.

Parameters:

- **path**: *str*\
  Path of the model to be loaded.

> 

Reviewer 2: Missing documentation for the `infer` method of the learner.

#### Simulation Setup

> The repository uses the iGibson Simulator as well as Stable-baseline3 as external libraries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The repository uses the iGibson Simulator as well as Stable-Baselines3 as external libraries.
```

> This means that the training environment relies on running using the iGibson scenes.

Reviewer 2: This wording is a little bit confusing. Maybe the suggestion is clearer?

```suggestion
This means that for the training environment to run, it relies on using iGibson scenes.
```

            def _init() -> MultiObjectEnv:
                env_ = MultiObjectEnv(
                    config_file=CONFIG_FILE,
                    scene_id=data_set[rank],
                    mix_sample=mix_sample[data_set[rank]]
                    )
                env_.seed(seed + rank)
                return env_
            return _init

        main_path = Path(__file__).parent
        logpath = f"{main_path}/logs/demo_run"
        CONFIG_FILE = str(f"{main_path}/best_defaults.yaml")

        mix_sample = {'Merom_0_int': False}
        train_set = ['Merom_0_int']

        env = VecEnvExt([make_env(0, data_set=train_set)])
        device = "cuda" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu"

        config = parse_config(CONFIG_FILE)

        agent = MultiObjectSearchRLLeaner(env, device=device, iters=config.get('train_iterations', 500),temp_path=logpath,config_filename=CONFIG_FILE)

        # start training
        agent.fit(env)

        # evaluate on finding 6 objects on one test scene
        metrics = agent.eval(env,name_prefix='Multi_Object_Search', name_scene="Benevolence_1_int", nr_evaluations= 75,deterministic_policy = False)

>         print(f"Success-rate for {scene} : {metrics['metrics']['success']} \nSPL for {scene} : {metrics['metrics']['spl']}")

Reviewer 2: `scene` variable isn't defined in this example code.

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        main()
  ```

* **Evaluate a pretrained model**

  ```python
    import torch
    from opendr.control.multi_object_search import MultiObjectSearchRLLeaner
    from opendr.control.multi_object_search import MultiObjectEnv
    from pathlib import Path
    from igibson.utils.utils import parse_config

    def main():
      main_path = Path(__file__).parent
      logpath = f"{main_path}/logs/demo_run"

>       #best_defaults.yaml contains important settings. (see above)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      # best_defaults.yaml contains important settings. (see above)
```

      CONFIG_FILE = str(f"{main_path}/best_defaults.yaml")

      env = MultiObjectEnv(config_file=CONFIG_FILE, scene_id="Benevolence_1_int")

      device = "cuda" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu"

      config = parse_config(CONFIG_FILE)

      agent = MultiObjectSearchRLLeaner(env, device=device, iters=config.get('train_iterations', 500),temp_path=logpath,config_filename=CONFIG_FILE)

      # evaluate on finding 6 objects on all test scenes
      eval_scenes = ['Benevolence_1_int', 'Pomaria_2_int', 'Benevolence_2_int', 'Wainscott_0_int', 'Beechwood_0_int',
                'Pomaria_1_int', 'Merom_1_int']

      agent.load("pretrained")

      deterministic_policy = config.get('deterministic_policy', False)

      for scene in eval_scenes:
        metrics = agent.eval(env,name_prefix='Multi_Object_Search', name_scene=scene, nr_evaluations= 75,\
                  deterministic_policy = deterministic_policy)

        print(f"Success-rate for {scene} : {metrics['metrics']['success']} \nSPL for {scene} : {metrics['metrics']['spl']}")

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        main()
  ```

#### Notes

> The iGibson simulator might crash, when evaluating multiple envrionments while using the gui mode (in .yaml file).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The iGibson simulator might crash, when evaluating multiple environments while using the gui mode (in .yaml file).
```
